=========================================
--- BOOK: 1671446040-lBPa.pdf ---
=========================================

--- TABLE OF CONTENTS ---
[ Contents ] (Page 7)
[ Preface ] (Page 11)
1: Why: Meet the Goals of People and the Organization (Page 17)
  Align the Goals of the People and the Organization (Page 18)
  Choose Content to Meet the Goals (Page 20)
  Identify Purposes, Opportunities, and Constraints (Page 27)
  Imagine and Test Solutions (Page 28)
  Summary: Words Make Experiences Work (Page 30)
2: Voice: They Recognize You (Page 31)
  Three Example Experiences (Page 32)
  Creating a Voice Chart (Page 34)
  Using the Voice Chart as a Decision-Making and Iteration Tool (Page 47)
  Summary: Lift Every Voice (Page 51)
3: Conversation for Content-First Design (Page 53)
  Face-to-Face, Full-Body Design (Page 54)
  Transforming the Conversation into an Experience (Page 58)
  Summary: Now You’re Having the Right Conversation (Page 61)
4: Apply UX Text Patterns (Page 63)
  Titles (Page 64)
  Buttons, Links, and Other Commands (Page 69)
  Descriptions (Page 74)
  Empty States (Page 78)
  Labels (Page 81)
  Controls (Page 85)
  Text Input Fields (Page 89)
  Transitional Text (Page 92)
  Confirmation Messages (Page 96)
  Notifications (Page 99)
  Errors (Page 103)
  Summary: Use Patterns as a Place to Start (Page 107)
5: Edit, Because They Didn’t Go There to Read (Page 109)
  Editing in Four Phases (Page 110)
  Purposeful (Page 111)
  Concise (Page 113)
  Conversational (Page 115)
  Clear (Page 117)
  Summary: Use UX Text to Help People Move Forward (Page 118)
6: Measuring UX Content Effectiveness (Page 119)
  Direct Measurement of UX Content (Page 120)
  Researching UX Content (Page 126)
  UX Content Heuristics (Page 129)
  Summary: If You Like It, Put a Value on It (Page 150)
7: Tools of the UX Writing Trade (Page 153)
  Write for the Context (Page 153)
  Managing Content Review (Page 158)
  Publishing the Text (Page 161)
  Tracking the Content Work to Be Done (Page 162)
  Summary: The Tools Are a Means to an End (Page 164)
8: A 30/60/90-Day Plan (Page 165)
  The First 30 Days, AKA Phase 1: What and Who (Page 165)
  30–60 Days, AKA Phase 2: Fires and Foundations (Page 172)
  60–90 Days, AKA Phase 3: Rapid Growth (Page 176)
  Summary: To Fix the Words, Build Strong Foundations (Page 178)
9: What to Do First (Page 179)
  Decide What Is Urgent and What Is Important (Page 179)
  Ground the Content in Empathy (Page 181)
  Introducing UX Content to the Team (Page 182)
  Summary: Use UX Content to Meet Your Goals (Page 183)
[ Index ] (Page 185)
About the Author (Page 193)

--- HEADINGS AND BOLD TEXT (Pages 5 to 70) ---
[
contents
]
Preface
ix
Chapter 1
Why: Meet the Goals of People and the Organization
1
Chapter 2
Voice: They Recognize You
15
Chapter 3
Conversation for Content-First Design
37
Chapter 4
Apply UX Text Patterns
47
Chapter 5
Edit, Because They Didn’t Go There to Read
93
Chapter 6
Measuring UX Content Effectiveness
103
Chapter 7
Tools of the UX Writing Trade
137
Chapter 8
A 30/60/90-Day Plan
149
Chapter 9
What to Do First
163
Index
169
[
Preface
]
[
1
]
Why: Meet the Goals of People
and the Organization
—RALF SPETH, CEO OF JAGUAR LAND ROVER
FIGURE 1-1
FIGURE 1-2
FIGURE 1-3
FIGURE 1-4
FIGURE 1-5
FIGURE 1-6
FIGURE 1-7
FIGURE 1-8
FIGURE 1-9
FIGURE 1-10
[
2
]
Voice: They Recognize You
—UNKNOWN, ATTRIBUTED TO MANY
FIGURE 2-1
TABLE 2-1.
PRODUCT PRINCIPLES
Sturgeon Club
TABLE 2-2.
’appee
TABLE 2-3.
TAPP
TABLE 2-4.
CONCEPTS
The Sturgeon Club
TABLE 2-5.
’appee
TABLE 2-6.
TAPP
TABLE 2-7.
VOCABULARY
The Sturgeon Club
TABLE 2-8.
’appee
TABLE 2-9.
TAPP
TABLE 2-10.
VERBOSITY
The Sturgeon Club
TABLE 2-11.
’appee
TABLE 2-12.
TAPP
TABLE 2-13.
GRAMMAR
The Sturgeon Club
TABLE 2-14.
’appee
TABLE 2-15.
TAPP
TABLE 2-16.
PUNCTUATION AND CAPITALIZATION
The Sturgeon Club
TABLE 2-17.
’appee
TABLE 2-18.
TAPP
TABLE 2-19.
COMPLETING THE VOICE CHART
TABLE 2-20.
TABLE 2-21.
TABLE 2-22.
FIGURE 2-2
TRAINING NEW CONTENT CREATORS
IMAGINING
FIGURE 2-3
DECISION MAKING AND TIE BREAKING
[
3
]
Conversation for Content-First Design
—CHARLES EAMES, AMERICAN DESIGNER
FIGURE 3-1
FIGURE 3-2
FIGURE 3-3
FIGURE 3-4
FIGURE 3-5
FIGURE 3-6
[
4
]
Apply UX Text Patterns
—DOUG DILLON, WRITER
BRAND-NAME TITLE
FIGURE 4-1
CONTENT-NAME TITLE
FIGURE 4-2
AMBIGUOUS-TASKS TITLE
FIGURE 4-3
SINGLE-TASK TITLE
FIGURE 4-4


=========================================
--- BOOK: 20220201181424-2022-02-01ebook181200.pdf ---
=========================================

--- TABLE OF CONTENTS ---
No TOC found.

--- HEADINGS AND BOLD TEXT (Pages 5 to 70) ---
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
1. A Brief Introduction to User Experience (UX) Design
What is User Experience (UX)?
What is a UX Designer?
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
1. A Brief Introduction to User Experience (UX) Design
Where Can UX Design be Found?
What's the Main Methodology for UX?
Complex projects
Startups
Projects with decent budgets
Long projects
Why Does UX Matter?
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
1. A Brief Introduction to User Experience (UX) Design
Become a UX Designer from Scratch
Become a UX Designer from Scratch
Beginner course
Mary Ann Sprague
Testimonials from Course Takers
∠
Become a UX Designer from
Scratch
The Take Away
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
1. A Brief Introduction to User Experience (UX) Design
Robin Davis
∠
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
What is Design Thinking and
Why Is It So Popular?
Empathise
Define
Ideate
Prototype
Test
What is Design Thinking?
CHAPTER 2
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
2. What is Design Thinking and Why Is It So Popular?
Design Thinking’s Phases
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
2. What is Design Thinking and Why Is It So Popular?
The Problem with Ingrained Patterns of Thinking
An Example of Problem solving: The Encumbered
Vs. The Fresh Mind
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
2. What is Design Thinking and Why Is It So Popular?
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
2. What is Design Thinking and Why Is It So Popular?
Design Thinking or 'Outside the Box' Thinking
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
2. What is Design Thinking and Why Is It So Popular?
Design Thinking is an Essential Tool—and A Third
Way
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
2. What is Design Thinking and Why Is It So Popular?
Science and Rationality in Design Thinking
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
2. What is Design Thinking and Why Is It So Popular?
Generating Creative Ideas and Solutions by Holistically
Understanding Humans
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
2. What is Design Thinking and Why Is It So Popular?
Design Thinking is an Iterative and Non-linear
Process
Empathise
Define
Ideate
Prototype
Test
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
2. What is Design Thinking and Why Is It So Popular?
Design Thinking is for Everybody
Design Thinking: The Beginner’s
Guide
The Take Away
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
2. What is Design Thinking and Why Is It So Popular?
Design Thinking: The Beginner’s Guide
Design Thinking: The Beginner’s Guide
Beginner course
Testimonials from Course Takers
Raisa Maijala
Raghu Krupa kanth Reddy.J
∠
∠
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The 7 Factors that Influence
User Experience
USEFUL
USABLE
FINDABLE
DESIRABLE
ACCESSIBLE
VALUABLE
CREDIBLE
CHAPTER 3
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
3. The 7 Factors that Influence User Experience
1. Useful
2. Usable
Useful
Usable
Findable
Credible
Desirable
Accessible
Valuable
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
3. The 7 Factors that Influence User Experience
4. Credible
3. Findable
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
3. The 7 Factors that Influence User Experience
5. Desirable
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
3. The 7 Factors that Influence User Experience
7. Valuable
6. Accessible
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
3. The 7 Factors that Influence User Experience
User Experience: The Beginner’s Guide
The Take Away
Evgeni Manov
Testimonials from Course Takers
Veena Sankaranarayanan
User Experience: The Beginner’s Guide
User Experience: The Beginner’s Guide
Beginner course
∠
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
3. The 7 Factors that Influence User Experience
Donato Colatorti
∠
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
An Introduction to Usability
ISO 9421-11 standard on usability
2015 joint research by Huff Industrial Marketing, KoMarketing and BuyerZone
Why Does Usability Matter?
CHAPTER 4
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
4. An Introduction to Usability
The 5 Characteristics of Usable Products
1. Effectiveness
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
4. An Introduction to Usability
Hemingway App
2. Efficiency
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
4. An Introduction to Usability
3. Engagement
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
4. An Introduction to Usability
4. Error Tolerance
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
4. An Introduction to Usability
5. Ease of learning
Utility + Usability = Usefulness
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
4. An Introduction to Usability
The Practical
Guide to Usability
The Take Away
The Practical Guide to Usability
The Practical Guide to Usability
Beginner course
∠
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
4. An Introduction to Usability
Testimonials from Course Takers
Matthew Worner
Sarang Sudhir Pitale
∠
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
How to Conduct User
Interviews
CHAPTER 5
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
5. How to Conduct User Interviews
What is a User Interview?
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
5. How to Conduct User Interviews
Preparing for User Interviews
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
5. How to Conduct User Interviews
Make your interviewees comfortable
How to Conduct a User Interview
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
5. How to Conduct User Interviews
Reporting on User Interviews
The Take Away
Try to keep the interview on time and heading in the right direction
Try to focus on the interviewee and not on making notes
Thank the interviewees at the end of the process
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
5. How to Conduct User Interviews
Human-Computer Interaction
Human-Computer Interaction
Human-Computer
Interaction
Beginner course
∠
Testimonials from Course Takers
Briane Paul Samson
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
5. How to Conduct User Interviews
Walter Darcie Neto
Francesco Manciocchi
∠
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
7 Great, Tried and Tested UX
Research Techniques
1. Card Sorting
CHAPTER 6
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
6. 7 Great, Tried and Tested UX Research Techniques
Why is Card Sorting a Good Technique?
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
6. 7 Great, Tried and Tested UX Research Techniques
Why is an Expert Review a Good Technique?
Why is Eye Movement Tracking a Good Technique?
3. Eye Movement Tracking
2. Expert Review
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
6. 7 Great, Tried and Tested UX Research Techniques
Why are Field Studies a Good Technique?
5. Usability Testing
4. Field Studies
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
6. 7 Great, Tried and Tested UX Research Techniques
Why is Usability Testing a Good Technique?
6. Remote Usability Testing
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
6. 7 Great, Tried and Tested UX Research Techniques
Why are User Personas a Good Technique?
The Take Away
Why is Remote Usability Testing a Good Technique?
7. User Personas
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
6. 7 Great, Tried and Tested UX Research Techniques
User Research - Methods and Best Practices
User
Research - Methods and Best Practices
Intermediate course
∠
User Research - Methods and Best Practices
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
6. 7 Great, Tried and Tested UX Research Techniques
Testimonials from Industry Experts
Forbes.com
SAP Community Network
Core77
∠
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
What is Interaction Design?
A Simple and Useful Understanding of
Interaction Design
CHAPTER 7
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
7. What is Interaction Design?
The 5 Dimensions of Interaction Design
1D: Words
2D: Visual Representations
3D: Physical Objects or Space
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
7. What is Interaction Design?
5D: Behavior
Important Questions Interaction Designers Ask
What can users do with their mice, ﬁngers, or styluses to interact with the interface directly?
What about the appearance (color, shape, size, etc.) gives the user a clue about how it may
function?
Do error messages provide a way for the user to correct the problem or explain why the error
occurred?
4D: Time
So, What do Interaction Designers do?
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
7. What is Interaction Design?
Design Strategy
Wireframes and Prototypes
What feedback does a user get once an action is performed?
Are the interface elements a reasonable size to interact with?
Are familiar or standard formats used?
So, What do Interaction Designers do?
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
7. What is Interaction Design?
Psychology of Interaction Design: The Ultimate Guide
The Take Away
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
6. What is Interaction Design?
Testimonials from Course Takers
Vasanth Kumar Talla
Theo Braden
Psychology of Interaction Design: The Ultimate
Guide
Psychology of
Interaction Design: The Ultimate Guide
Advanced course
∠
∠
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
Mobile Web UX Design:
Some Simple Guidelines
CHAPTER 8
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
8. Mobile Web UX Design: Some Simple Guidelines
Basic Design Considerations for the Mobile Web
Small Screens
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
8. Mobile Web UX Design: Some Simple Guidelines
Keep Navigation Simple
Keep Content to a Minimum
Reduce the Inputs Required from Users
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
8. Mobile Web UX Design: Some Simple Guidelines
Remember Mobile Connections Are Not Stable
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
8. Mobile Web UX Design: Some Simple Guidelines
Continuous Integrated Experiences
Mobile User Experience (UX) Design
The Take Away
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
8. Mobile Web UX Design: Some Simple Guidelines
Testimonials from Course Takers
Jennifer Steiner-Kotch
Ajayraj
Mobile User Experience (UX) Design
Mobile User Experience Design
Intermediate course
∠
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
8. Mobile Web UX Design: Some Simple Guidelines
Tony Evreniadis
∠
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
Information Visualization –
A Brief Introduction
CHAPTER 9
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
9. Information Visualization – A Brief Introduction
An Example of Everyday Information Visualization
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
9. Information Visualization – A Brief Introduction
Common Uses for Information Visualization
Presentation (for Understanding or Persuasion)
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
9. Information Visualization – A Brief Introduction
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
9. Information Visualization – A Brief Introduction
Confirmation Analysis
Explorative Analysis
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
9. Information Visualization – A Brief Introduction
The Take Away
INTERACTION-DESIGN.ORG
The Basics of User Experience (UX) Design by Interaction Design Foundation
9. Information Visualization – A Brief Introduction
Information Visualization
Information Visualization
Beginner course
∠
Information Visualization


=========================================
--- BOOK: Don't Make Me Think, Revisited, 3rd Edition.pdf ---
=========================================

--- TABLE OF CONTENTS ---
Title Page (Page 2)
Copyright Page (Page 3)
Dedication Page (Page 4)
Contents (Page 5)
Preface: About this edition (Page 7)
  #1. Let’s face it: It’s old (Page 8)
  #2. The world has changed (Page 11)
  Don’t get me wrong... (Page 15)
Introduction: Read me first (Page 16)
  The bad news: You probably don’t have a usability professional (Page 19)
  The good news: It’s not rocket surgery™ (Page 19)
  It’s a thin book (Page 20)
  Not present at time of photo (Page 21)
  Now with Mobile! (Page 21)
  One last thing, before we begin (Page 21)
Guiding Principles (Page 23)
  Chapter 1. Don’t make me think! (Page 24)
    “Don’t make me think!” (Page 24)
    Things that make us think (Page 26)
    You can’t make everything self-evident (Page 28)
    Why is all of this so important? (Page 29)
    So why, then? (Page 29)
  Chapter 2. How we really use the Web (Page 30)
    FACT OF LIFE #1: We don’t read pages. We scan them. (Page 31)
    FACT OF LIFE #2: We don’t make optimal choices. We satisfice. (Page 32)
    FACT OF LIFE #3: We don’t figure out how things work. We muddle through. (Page 33)
    If life gives you lemons... (Page 35)
  Chapter 3. Billboard Design 101 (Page 36)
    Conventions are your friends (Page 36)
    Create effective visual hierarchies (Page 44)
    Break up pages into clearly defined areas (Page 46)
    Make it obvious what’s clickable (Page 46)
    Keep the noise down to a dull roar (Page 48)
    Format text to support scanning (Page 49)
  Chapter 4. Animal, Vegetable, or Mineral? (Page 54)
    Some assistance may be required (Page 57)
  Chapter 5. Omit needless words (Page 59)
    Happy talk must die (Page 59)
    Instructions must die (Page 60)
    And now for something completely different (Page 61)
Things You Need to Get Right (Page 62)
  Chapter 6. Street signs and Breadcrumbs (Page 63)
    Scene from a mall (Page 63)
    Web Navigation 101 (Page 65)
    The unbearable lightness of browsing (Page 67)
    The overlooked purposes of navigation (Page 69)
    Web navigation conventions (Page 69)
    Don’t look now, but I think it’s following us (Page 71)
    Did I say every page? (Page 72)
    Now I know we’re not in Kansas (Page 72)
    The Sections (Page 74)
    The Utilities (Page 74)
    Just click your heels three times and say, “There’s no place like home” (Page 76)
    A way to search (Page 76)
    Secondary, tertiary, and whatever comes after tertiary (Page 77)
    Page names, or Why I love to drive in L.A. (Page 78)
    “You are here” (Page 80)
    Breadcrumbs (Page 82)
    Three reasons why I still love tabs (Page 83)
    Try the trunk test (Page 83)
  Chapter 7. The Big Bang Theory of Web Design (Page 85)
    And you have to do it...blindfolded (Page 88)
    The First Casualty of War (Page 89)
    But...the Home page? Really? (Page 91)
    How to get the message across (Page 92)
    Nothing beats a good tagline!™ (Page 94)
    Tagline? We don’t need no stinking tagline (Page 96)
    The fifth question (Page 96)
    Why Golden Geese make such tempting targets (Page 97)
Making Sure You Got them Right (Page 99)
  Chapter 8. “The Farmer and the Cowman Should Be Friends” (Page 100)
    “Everybody likes ________.” (Page 102)
    Farmers vs. cowmen (Page 102)
    The myth of the Average User (Page 103)
    The antidote for religious debates (Page 104)
  Chapter 9. Usability testing on 10 cents a day (Page 105)
    Repeat after me: Focus groups are not usability tests. (Page 106)
    Several true things about usability testing (Page 107)
    Do-it-yourself usability testing (Page 108)
    How often should you test? (Page 110)
    How many users do you need? (Page 111)
    How do you choose the participants? (Page 112)
    How do you find participants? (Page 113)
    Where do you test? (Page 113)
    Who should do the testing? (Page 114)
    Who should observe? (Page 114)
    What do you test, and when do you test it? (Page 116)
    How do you choose the tasks to test? (Page 117)
    What happens during the test? (Page 117)
    A sample test session (Page 118)
    Typical problems (Page 125)
    The debriefing: Deciding what to fix (Page 126)
    Alternative lifestyles (Page 127)
    Try it, you’ll like it (Page 127)
Larger Concerns and Outside Influences (Page 129)
  Chapter 10. Mobile: It’s not just a city in Alabama anymore (Page 130)
    What’s the difference? (Page 131)
    It’s all about tradeoffs (Page 132)
    The tyranny of the itty-bitty living space (Page 137)
    Breeding chameleons (Page 138)
    Don’t hide your affordances under a bushel (Page 139)
    No cursor = no hover = no clue (Page 139)
    Flat design: Friend or foe? (Page 140)
    You actually can be too rich or too thin (Page 140)
    Mobile apps, usability attributes of (Page 141)
    Delightful is the new black (Page 142)
    Apps need to be learnable (Page 143)
    Apps need to be memorable, too (Page 145)
    Usability testing on mobile devices (Page 146)
    The logistics of mobile testing (Page 146)
    My recommendations (Page 147)
    Proof of concept: My Brundleyfly camera (Page 147)
    Finally... (Page 148)
  Chapter 11. Usability as common courtesy (Page 150)
    The reservoir of goodwill (Page 151)
    Things that diminish goodwill (Page 152)
    Things that increase goodwill (Page 154)
  Chapter 12. Accessibility and you (Page 156)
    What developers and designers hear (Page 157)
    What designers and developers fear (Page 158)
    The truth is, it can be complicated (Page 159)
    The four things you can do right now (Page 160)
    #1. Fix the usability problems that confuse everyone (Page 160)
    #2. Read an article (Page 160)
    #3. Read a book (Page 161)
    #4. Go for the low-hanging fruit (Page 162)
  Chapter 13. Guide for the perplexed (Page 164)
    Ya gotta know the territory (Page 164)
    The usual advice (Page 165)
    If I were you... (Page 165)
    Resist the dark forces (Page 168)
    A few definitive answers (Page 171)
Acknowledgments (Page 174)
Index (Page 177)
Also Available (Page 182)

--- HEADINGS AND BOLD TEXT (Pages 5 to 70) ---
CHAPTER 12
Accessibility and you
Just when you think you’re done, a cat floats by with buttered toast strapped to its back
CHAPTER 13
Guide for the perplexed
Making usability happen where you live
Acknowledgments
Index
Preface: About this edition
People come and go so quickly here!
I wrote the first edition of
Don’t Make Me Think
back in 2000.
By 2002, I began to get a few emails a year from readers asking (very politely) if I’d thought about
updating it. Not complaining; just trying to be helpful. “A lot of the examples are out of date” was the
usual comment.
My standard response was to point out that since I wrote it right around the time the Internet bubble
burst, many of the sites I used as examples had already disappeared by the time it was published. But I
didn’t think that made the examples any less clear.
Finally, in 2006 I had a strong personal incentive to update it.
But as I reread it to see what I should
change, I just kept thinking “This is all still true.” I really couldn’t find much of anything that I thought
should be changed.
If it was a new edition, though,
something
had to be different. So I added three chapters that I didn’t
have time to finish back in 2000, hit the snooze button, and happily pulled the covers back over my
head for another seven years.
2000
2006
(Writing is really hard for me, and I’m always happy to have a reason not to do it. Give me a good old
root canal over writing any day.)
So why now, finally, a new edition? Two reasons.
#1. Let’s face it: It’s old
There’s no doubt about it at this point: It feels dated. After all, it’s thirteen years old, which is like a
hundred years in Internet time. (See? Nobody even says things like “in Internet time” anymore.)
Most of the Web pages I used for examples, like Senator Orrin Hatch’s campaign site for the 2000
election, look really old-fashioned now.
Sites these days tend to look a lot more sophisticated, as you might expect.
www.orrinhatch.com
1999
www.orrinhatch.com
2012
Recently I’ve been starting to worry that the book would finally reach a point where it felt
so
dated that
it would stop being effective. I know it hasn’t happened yet because
It’s still selling steadily (thank heavens), without any sign of slowing down. It’s even become
required reading in a lot of courses, something I never expected.
New readers from all over the world continue to tweet about things they’ve learned from it.
I still keep hearing this story: “I gave it to my boss, hoping he’d finally understand what I’m
talking about. He actually read it, and then he bought it for our whole team/department/company!”
(I love that story.)
People keep telling me that they got their job thanks in part to reading it or that it influenced their
choice of a career.
But I know that eventually the aging effect is going to keep people from reading it, for the same reason
that it was so hard to get my son to watch black and white movies when he was young, no matter how
good they were.
Clearly, it’s time for new examples.
#2. The world has changed
To say that computers and the Internet and the way we use them have changed a lot lately is putting it
mildly. Very mildly.
The landscape has changed in three ways:
Technology got its hands on some steroids.
In 2000, we were using the Web on relatively large
screens, with a mouse or touchpad and a keyboard. And we were sitting down, often at a desk,
when we did.
Now we use tiny computers that we carry around with us all the time, with still and video
cameras, magical maps that know exactly where we are, and our entire libraries of books and
music built in. And are always connected to the Internet. Oh, and they’re phones, too.
Heck, I can use my “phone” to
...book a restaurant reservation in seconds
...adjust the heat in my house from anywhere
...or deposit a check without going to an ATM
It’s no flying car (which, come to think of it, we were promised we’d have by now), but it’s pretty
impressive.
The Web itself kept improving.
Even when I’m using my desktop computer to do all the things
I’ve always done on the Web (buying stuff, making travel plans, connecting with friends, reading
the news, and settling bar bets), the sites I use tend to be much more powerful and useful than
their predecessors.
We’ve come to expect things like autosuggest and autocorrect, and we’re annoyed when we
can’t
pay a parking ticket or renew a driver’s license online.
Usability went mainstream.
In 2000, not that many people understood the importance of
usability.
Now, thanks in large part to Steve Jobs (and Jonathan Ive), almost everyone understands that it’s
important, even if they’re still not entirely sure what it is. Except now they usually call it User
Experience Design (UXD or just UX), an umbrella term for any activity or profession that
contributes to a better experience for the user.
It’s great that there’s now so much more emphasis on designing for the user, but all the new job
descriptions, subspecialties, and tools that have come along with this evolution have left a lot of
people confused about what they should actually
do
about it.
I’ll be talking about all three of these changes throughout the book.
Don’t get me wrong...
This edition has new examples, some new principles, and a few things I’ve learned along the way, but
it’s still the same book, with the same purpose: It’s still a book about designing great, usable Web sites.
And it’s also still a book about designing anything that people need to interact with, whether it’s a
microwave oven, a mobile app, or an ATM.
The basic principles are the same even if the landscape has changed, because usability is about people
and how they understand and use things, not about technology. And while technology often changes
quickly, people change very slowly.
Or as Jakob Nielsen so aptly put it:
The human brain’s capacity doesn’t change from one year to the next, so the insights from
studying human behavior have a very long shelf life. What was difficult for users twenty years
ago continues to be difficult today.
I hope you enjoy the new edition. And don’t forget to wave in a few years when you pass me in your
flying car.
STEVE KRUG
NOVEMBER 2013
Introduction: Read me first
THROAT CLEARING AND DISCLAIMERS
I can’t tell you anything you don’t already know. But I’d like to clarify a few things.
I have a great job. I’m a usability consultant. Here’s what I do:
People (“clients”) send me something they’re working on.
It could be designs for a new Web site they’re building, or the URL of a site that they’re
redesigning, or a prototype of an app.
I try using what they send me, doing the things that their users would need or want to do with it. I
note the places where people are likely to get stuck and the things that I think will confuse them
(an “expert usability review”).
Sometimes I get other people to try using it while I watch to see where
they
get stuck and
confused (“usability testing”).
I have a meeting with the client’s team to describe the problems I found that are likely to cause
users grief (“usability issues”) and help them decide which ones are most important to fix and
how best to fix them.
Sometimes we work by the phone...
...and sometimes in person
I used to write what I called the “big honking report” detailing my findings, but I finally realized
that it wasn’t worth the time and effort. A live presentation allows people to ask me questions and
voice their concerns—something a written report doesn’t do. And for teams doing Agile or Lean
development, there’s no time for written reports anyway.
They pay me.
Being a consultant, I get to work on interesting projects with a lot of nice, smart people. I get to work at
home most of the time and I don’t have to sit in mind-numbing meetings every day or deal with office
politics. I get to say what I think, and people usually appreciate it. And I get paid well.
On top of all that, I get a lot of job satisfaction, because when we’re finished, the things they’re building
are almost always much better than when we started.
The bad news: You probably don’t have a usability professional
Almost every development team could use somebody like me to help them build usability into their
products. Unfortunately, the vast majority of them can’t afford to hire a usability professional.
And even if they could, there aren’t enough to go around. At last count there were umpteen billion Web
sites (and umpteen billion apps for the iPhone alone
) and only about 10,000 usability consultants
worldwide. You do the math.
And even if you do have a professional on your team, that person can’t possibly look at everything the
team produces.
In the last few years, making things more usable has become almost everybody’s responsibility. Visual
designers and developers now often find themselves doing things like interaction design (deciding what
happens next when the user clicks, taps, or swipes) and information architecture (figuring out how
everything should be organized).
I wrote this book mainly for people who can’t afford to hire (or rent) someone like me.
Knowing some usability principles will help you see the problems yourself—and help keep you from
creating them in the first place.
No question: If you can afford to, hire someone like me. But if you can’t, I hope this book will enable
you to do it yourself (in your copious spare time).
The good news: It’s not rocket surgery™
Fortunately, much of what I do is just common sense, and anyone with some interest can learn to do it.
Like a lot of common sense, though, it’s not necessarily obvious until
after
someone’s pointed it out to
you.
I spend a lot of my time telling people things they already know, so don’t be surprised if you find
yourself thinking “I knew
that
” a lot in the pages ahead.
It’s a thin book
More good news: I’ve worked hard to keep this book short—hopefully short enough so you can read it
on a long plane ride. I did this for two reasons:
If it’s short, it’s more likely to actually be used.
I’m writing for the people who are in the
trenches—the designers, the developers, the site producers, the project managers, the marketing
people, and the people who sign the checks—and for the one-man-bands who are doing it all
themselves.
Usability isn’t your life’s work, and you don’t have time for a long book.
You don’t need to know everything.
As with any field, there’s a lot you
could
learn about
usability. But unless you’re a usability professional, there’s a limit to how much is
useful
for you
to learn.
I find that the most valuable contributions I make to each project always come from keeping just a few
key usability principles in mind. I think there’s a lot more leverage for most people in understanding
these principles than in another laundry list of specific do’s and don’ts. I’ve tried to boil down the few
things I think everybody involved in design should know about usability.
Not present at time of photo
Just so you don’t waste your time looking for them, here are a few things you won’t find in this book:
Hard and fast usability rules.
I’ve been at this for a long time, long enough to know that there is
no one “right” answer to most usability questions. Design is a complicated process and the real
answer to most of the questions people ask me is “It depends.” But I do think that there are a few
useful guiding principles it always helps to have in mind, and those are what I’m trying to convey.
Predictions about the future of technology and the Web.
Honestly, your guess is as good as
mine. The only thing I’m sure of is that (a) most of the predictions I hear are almost certainly
wrong, and (b) the things that will turn out to be important will come as a surprise, even though in
hindsight they’ll seem perfectly obvious.
Bad-mouthing of poorly designed sites and apps.
If you enjoy people poking fun at things with
obvious flaws, you’re reading the wrong book. Designing, building, and maintaining a great Web
site or app isn’t easy. It’s like golf: a handful of ways to get the ball in the hole, a million ways not
to. Anyone who gets it even half right has my admiration.
As a result, you’ll find that the examples I use tend to be from excellent products with minor
flaws. I think you can learn more from looking at good designs than bad ones.
Now with Mobile!
One of the dilemmas I faced when updating this book was that it’s always been a book about designing
usable Web sites. Even though the principles apply to the design of anything people have to interact
with (including things like election ballots and voting booths, and even PowerPoint presentations), its
focus was clearly on Web design, and all the examples were from Web sites. Until recently, that’s what
most people were working on.
But now there are a lot of people designing mobile apps, and even the people working on Web sites
have to create versions of them that work well on mobile devices. I know they’re very interested in how
all of this applies to them.
So I did three things:
Included mobile examples wherever it made sense
Added a new chapter about some mobile-specific usability issues
And the most important one: Added “and Mobile” to the subtitle on the cover
And as you’ll see, in some places where it made things clearer, instead of “Web site” I’ve written “Web
site or mobile app.” In most cases, though, I used the Web-centric wording to keep things from getting
cumbersome and distracting.
One last thing, before we begin
One crucial thing, really: My definition of usability.
You’ll find a lot of different definitions of usability, often breaking it down into attributes like
Useful:
Does it do something people need done?
Learnable:
Can people figure out how to use it?
Memorable:
Do they have to relearn it each time they use it?
Effective:
Does it get the job done?
Efficient:
Does it do it with a reasonable amount of time and effort?
Desirable:
Do people want it?
and recently even
Delightful:
Is using it enjoyable, or even fun?
I’ll talk about these later. But to me, the important part of the definition is pretty simple. If something is
usable—whether it’s a Web site, a remote control, or a revolving door—it means that
A person of average (or even below average) ability and experience can figure out how to use
the thing to accomplish something without it being more trouble than it’s worth.
Take my word for it: It’s really that simple.
I hope this book will help you build better products and—if it lets you skip a few of the endless
arguments about design—maybe even get home in time for dinner once in a while.
Guiding Principles
Chapter 1. Don’t make me think!
KRUG’S FIRST LAW OF USABILITY
Michael, why are the drapes open?
People often ask me:
“What’s the most important thing I should do if I want to make sure my site or app is easy to
use?”
The answer is simple. It’s not “Nothing important should ever be more than two clicks away” or “Speak
the user’s language” or “Be consistent.”
It’s...
“Don’t make me think!”
For as long I can remember, I’ve been telling people that this is my first law of usability.
It’s the overriding principle—the ultimate tie breaker when deciding whether a design works or it
doesn’t. If you have room in your head for only one usability rule, make this the one.
For instance, it means that as far as is humanly possible, when I look at a Web page it should be self-
evident. Obvious. Self-explanatory.
I should be able to “get it”—what it is and how to use it—without expending any effort thinking about
it.
Just how self-evident are we talking about?
Well, self-evident enough, for instance, that your next door neighbor, who has no interest in the subject
of your site and who barely knows how to use the Back button, could look at your Home page and say,
“Oh, it’s a _____.” (With any luck, she’ll say, “Oh, it’s a _____. Great!” But that’s another subject.)
Think of it this way:
When I’m looking at a page that doesn’t make me think, all the thought balloons over my head say
things like “OK, there’s the_____. And that’s a _____. And there’s the thing that I want.”
Not Thinking
But when I’m looking at a page that makes me think, all the thought balloons over my head have
question marks in them.
Thinking
When you’re creating a site, your job is to get rid of the question marks.
Things that make us think
All kinds of things on a Web page can make us stop and think unnecessarily. Take names, for example.
Typical culprits are cute or clever names, marketing-induced names, company-specific names, and
unfamiliar technical names.
For instance, suppose a friend tells me that XYZ Corp is looking to hire someone with my exact
qualifications, so I head off to their Web site. As I scan the page for something to click, the name
they’ve chosen for their job listings section makes a difference.
Note that these things are always on a continuum somewhere between “Obvious to everybody” and
“Truly obscure,” and there are always tradeoffs involved.
For instance, “Jobs” may sound too undignified for XYZ Corp, or they may be locked into “Job-o-
Rama” because of some complicated internal politics or because that’s what it’s always been called in
their company newsletter.
My main point is that the tradeoffs should usually be skewed further in the
direction of “Obvious” than we think.
Another needless source of question marks over people’s heads is links and buttons that aren’t
obviously clickable. As a user, I should never have to devote a millisecond of thought to whether things
are clickable—or not.
You may be thinking, “Well, it really doesn’t matter that much. If you click or tap it and nothing
happens, what’s the big deal?”
The point is that every question mark adds to our cognitive workload, distracting our attention from the
task at hand. The distractions may be slight but they add up, especially if it’s something we do all the
time like deciding what to click on.
And as a rule, people don’t
like
to puzzle over how to do things. They enjoy puzzles in their place—
when they want to be entertained or diverted or challenged—but not when they’re trying to find out
what time their dry cleaner closes. The fact that the people who built the site didn’t care enough to make
things obvious—and easy—can erode our confidence in the site and the organization behind it.
Another example from a common task: booking a flight.
Granted, most of this “mental chatter” takes place in a fraction of a second, but you can see that it’s a
pretty noisy process, with a lot of question marks. And then there’s a puzzling error at the end.
Another site just takes what I type and gives me choices that make sense, so it’s hard to go wrong.
No question marks. No mental chatter. And no errors.
I could list dozens of things that users shouldn’t spend their time thinking about, like
Where am I?
Where should I begin?
Where did they put _____?
What are the most important things on this page?
Why did they call it that?
Is that an ad or part of the site?
But the last thing you need is another checklist to add to your stack of design checklists. The most
important thing you can do is to understand the basic principle of eliminating question marks. When
you do, you’ll begin to notice all the things that make
you
think in the sites and apps
you
use. And
eventually you’ll learn to recognize and avoid them in the things you’re building.
You can’t make everything self-evident
Your goal should be for each page or screen to be self-evident, so that just by looking at it the average
user
will know what it is and how to use it. In other words, they’ll “get it” without having to think
about it.
Sometimes, though, particularly if you’re doing something original or groundbreaking or something
that’s inherently complicated, you have to settle for
self-explanatory
. On a self-explanatory page, it
takes a
little
thought to “get it”—but only a little. The appearance of things (like size, color, and layout),
their well-chosen names, and the
small
amounts of carefully crafted text should all work together to
create a sense of nearly effortless understanding.
Here’s the rule: If you can’t make something self-evident, you at least need to make it self-explanatory.
Why is all of this so important?
Oddly enough, not for the reason people usually cite:
It’s true that there’s a lot of competition out there. Especially in things like mobile apps, where there are
often many readily available (and equally attractive) alternatives, and the cost of changing horses is
usually negligible (99 cents or even “Free”).
But it’s not
always
true that people are fickle. For instance:
They may have no choice but to stick with it, if it’s their only option (e.g., a company intranet, or
their bank’s mobile app, or the only site that sells the rattan they’re looking for).
You’d be surprised at how long some people will tough it out on sites that frustrate them, often
blaming themselves and not the site. There’s also the “I’ve waited ten minutes for this bus already,
so I may as well hang in a little longer” phenomenon.
Besides, who’s to say that the competition will be any less frustrating?
So why, then?
Making every page or screen self-evident is like having good lighting in a store: it just makes
everything seem better. Using a site that doesn’t make us think about unimportant things feels effortless,
whereas puzzling over things that don’t matter to us tends to sap our energy and enthusiasm—and time.
But as you’ll see in the next chapter when we examine how we really use the Web, the main reason why
it’s important not to make me think is that most people are going to spend far less time looking at the
pages we design than we’d like to imagine.
As a result, if Web pages are going to be effective, they have to work most of their magic at a glance.
And the best way to do this is to create pages that are self-evident, or at least self-explanatory.
Chapter 2. How we
really
use the Web
SCANNING, SATISFICING, AND MUDDLING THROUGH
Why are things always in the last place you look for them? Because you stop looking when you find
them!
In all the time I’ve spent watching people use the Web, the thing that has struck me most is the
difference between how we think people use Web sites and how they actually use them.
When we’re creating sites, we act as though people are going to pore over each page, reading all of our
carefully crafted text, figuring out how we’ve organized things, and weighing their options before
deciding which link to click.
What they actually do most of the time (if we’re lucky) is
glance
at each new page, scan
some
of the
text, and click on the first link that catches their interest or vaguely resembles the thing they’re looking
for. There are almost always large parts of the page that they don’t even look at.
We’re thinking “great literature” (or at least “product brochure”), while the user’s reality is much closer
to “billboard going by at 60 miles an hour.”
As you might imagine, it’s a little more complicated than this, and it depends on the kind of page, what
the user is trying to do, how much of a hurry she’s in, and so on. But this simplistic view is much closer
to reality than most of us imagine.
It makes sense that we picture a more rational, attentive user when we’re designing pages. It’s only
natural to assume that everyone uses the Web the same way we do, and—like everyone else—we tend
to think that our own behavior is much more orderly and sensible than it really is.
If you want to design effective Web pages, though, you have to learn to live with three facts about real-
world Web use.
FACT OF LIFE #1:
We don’t read pages. We scan them.
One of the very few well-documented facts about Web use is that people tend to spend very little time
reading
most Web pages. Instead, we scan (or skim) them, looking for words or phrases that catch our
eye.
The exception, of course, is pages that contain documents like news stories, reports, or product
descriptions, where people will revert to reading—but even then, they’re often alternating between
reading and scanning.
Why do we scan?
We’re usually on a mission.
Most Web use involves trying to get something done, and usually
done quickly. As a result, Web users tend to act like sharks: They have to keep moving, or they’ll
die. We just don’t have the time to read any more than necessary.
We know we don’t
need
to read everything.
On most pages, we’re really only interested in a
fraction of what’s on the page. We’re just looking for the bits that match our interests or the task at
hand, and the rest of it is irrelevant. Scanning is how we find the relevant bits.
We’re good at it.
It’s a basic skill: When you learn to read, you also learn to scan. We’ve been
scanning newspapers, magazines, and books—or if you’re under 25, probably reddit, Tumblr, or
Facebook—all our lives to find the parts we’re interested in, and we know that it works.
The net effect is a lot like Gary Larson’s classic Far Side cartoon about the difference between what we
say to dogs and what they hear. In the cartoon, the dog (named Ginger) appears to be listening intently
as her owner gives her a serious talking-to about staying out of the garbage. But from the dog’s point of
view, all he’s saying is “blah blah GINGER blah blah blah blah GINGER blah blah blah.”
What we see when we look at a page depends on what we have in mind, and it’s usually just a fraction
of what’s there.
Like Ginger, we tend to focus on words and phrases that seem to match (a) the task at hand or (b) our
current or ongoing personal interests. And of course, (c) the trigger words that are hardwired into our
nervous systems, like “Free,” “Sale,” and “Sex,” and our own name.
FACT OF LIFE #2:
We don’t make optimal choices. We satisfice.
When we’re designing pages, we tend to assume that users will scan the page, consider all of the
available options, and choose the best one.
In reality, though, most of the time we
don’t
choose the best option—we choose the
first reasonable
option
, a strategy known as satisficing.
As soon as we find a link that seems like it might lead to what
we’re looking for, there’s a very good chance that we’ll click it.
I’d observed this behavior for years, but its significance wasn’t really clear to me until I read Gary
Klein’s book
Sources of Power: How People Make Decisions
.
Klein spent many years studying naturalistic decision making: how people like firefighters, pilots,
chessmasters, and nuclear power plant operators make high-stakes decisions in real situations with time
pressure, vague goals, limited information, and changing conditions.
Klein’s team of observers went into their first study (of field commanders at fire scenes) with the
generally accepted model of rational decision making: Faced with a problem, a person gathers
information, identifies the possible solutions, and chooses the best one. They started with the hypothesis
that because of the high stakes and extreme time pressure, fire captains would be able to compare only
two options, an assumption they thought was conservative.
As it turned out, the fire commanders didn’t compare
any
options. They took the first reasonable plan
that came to mind and did a quick mental test for possible problems. If they didn’t find any, they had
their plan of action.
So why don’t Web users look for the best choice?
We’re usually in a hurry.
And as Klein points out, “Optimizing is hard, and it takes a long time.
Satisficing is more efficient.”
There’s not much of a penalty for guessing wrong.
Unlike firefighting, the penalty for guessing
wrong on a Web site is usually only a click or two of the Back button, making satisficing an
effective strategy. (Back is the most-used button in Web browsers.)
Weighing options may not improve our chances.
On poorly designed sites, putting effort into
making the best choice doesn’t really help. You’re usually just as well off going with your first
guess and using the Back button if it doesn’t work out.
Guessing is more fun.
It’s less work than weighing options, and if you guess right, it’s faster.
And it introduces an element of chance—the pleasant possibility of running into something
surprising and good.
Of course, this is not to say that users never weigh options before they click. It depends on things like
their frame of mind, how pressed they are for time, and how much confidence they have in the site.
FACT OF LIFE #3:
We don’t figure out how things work. We muddle through.
One of the things that becomes obvious as soon as you do any usability testing—whether you’re testing
Web sites, software, or household appliances—is the extent to which people use things all the time
without understanding how they work, or with completely wrong-headed ideas about how they work.
Faced with any sort of technology, very few people take the time to read instructions. Instead, we forge
ahead and muddle through, making up our own vaguely plausible stories about what we’re doing and
why it works.
It often reminds me of the scene at the end of
The Prince and the Pauper
where the real prince
discovers that the look-alike pauper has been using the Great Seal of England as a nutcracker in his
absence. (It makes perfect sense—to him, the seal is just this great big, heavy chunk of metal.)
And the fact is, we get things done that way. I’ve seen lots of people use software, Web sites, and
consumer products effectively in ways that are nothing like what the designers intended.
Take the Web browser, for instance—a crucial part of Internet use. To people who build Web sites, it’s
an application that you use to view Web pages. But if you ask users what a browser is, a surprisingly
large percentage will say something like “It’s what I use to search...to find things” or “It’s the search
engine.” Try it yourself: ask some family members what a Web browser is. You may be surprised.
Many people use the Web extensively without knowing that they’re using a browser. What they know is
you type something in a box and stuff appears.
But it doesn’t matter to them: They’re muddling
through and using the thing successfully.
And muddling through is not limited to beginners. Even technically savvy users often have surprising
gaps in their understanding of how things work. (I wouldn’t be surprised if even Mark Zuckerberg and
Sergey Brin have some bits of technology in their lives that they use by muddling through.)
Why does this happen?
It’s not important to us.
For most of us, it doesn’t matter to us whether we understand how
things work, as long as we can use them. It’s not for lack of intelligence, but for lack of caring. It’s
just not important to us.
If we find something that works, we stick to it.
Once we find something that works—no matter
how badly—we tend not to look for a better way. We’ll use a better way if we stumble across one,
but we seldom look for one.
It’s always interesting to watch designers and developers observe their first usability test. The first time
they see a user click on something completely inappropriate, they’re surprised. (For instance, when the
user ignores a nice big fat “Software” button in the navigation bar, saying something like, “Well, I’m
looking for software, so I guess I’d click here on ‘Cheap Stuff’ because cheap is always good.”) The
user may even find what he’s looking for eventually, but by then the people watching don’t know
whether to be happy or not.
The second time it happens, they’re yelling “Just click on ‘Software’!” The third time, you can see them
thinking: “Why are we even bothering?”
And it’s a good question: If people manage to muddle through so much, does it really matter whether
they “get it”? The answer is that it matters a great deal because while muddling through may work
sometimes, it tends to be inefficient and error-prone.
On the other hand, if users “get it”:
There’s a much better chance that they’ll find what they’re looking for, which is good for them
and for you.
There’s a better chance that they’ll understand the full range of what your site has to offer—not
just the parts that they stumble across.
You have a better chance of steering them to the parts of your site that you want them to see.
They’ll feel smarter and more in control when they’re using your site, which will bring them
back. You can get away with a site that people muddle through only until someone builds one
down the street that makes them feel smart.
If life gives you lemons...
By now you may be thinking (given this less than rosy picture of your audience and how they use the
Web), “Why don’t I just get a job at the local 7-Eleven? At least there my efforts
might
be appreciated.”
So, what’s a girl to do?
I think the answer is simple: If your audience is going to act like you’re designing billboards, then
design great billboards.
Chapter 3. Billboard Design 101
DESIGNING FOR SCANNING, NOT READING
If you / Don’t know / Whose signs / These are You can’t have / Driven very far / Burma-Shave!
Faced with the fact that your users are whizzing by, there are some important things you can do to make
sure they see and understand as much of what they need to know—and of what you
want
them to know
—as possible:
Take advantage of conventions
Create effective visual hierarchies
Break pages up into clearly defined areas
Make it obvious what’s clickable
Eliminate distractions
Format content to support scanning
Conventions are your friends
One of the best ways to make almost anything easier to grasp in a hurry is to follow the existing
conventions—the widely used or standardized design patterns. For example:
Stop signs.
Given how crucial it is that drivers see and recognize them at a glance, at a distance,
in all kinds of weather and lighting conditions, it’s a really good thing that all stop signs look the
same. (Some of the specifics may vary from country to country, but overall they’re remarkably
consistent around the world.)
The convention includes a distinctive shape, the word for “Stop,” a highly visible color that
contrasts with most natural surroundings, and standardized size, height, and location.
Controls in cars.
Imagine trying to drive a rental car if the gas pedal wasn’t always to the right of
the brake pedal, or the horn wasn’t always on the steering wheel.
In the past twenty years, many conventions for Web pages have evolved. As users, we’ve come to have
a lot of expectations about
Where things will be located on a page.
For example, users expect the logo identifying the site
to be in the top-left corner (at least in countries where reading is left-to-right) and the primary
navigation to be across the top or down the left side.
How things work.
For example, almost all sites that sell products use the metaphor of a shopping
cart and a very similar series of forms for specifying things like your method of payment, your
shipping address, and so on.
How things look.
Many elements have a standardized appearance, like the icon that tells you it’s
a link to a video, the search icon, and the social networking sharing options.
Conventions have also evolved for different
kinds
of sites—commerce, colleges, blogs, restaurants,
movies, and many more—since all the sites in each category have to solve the same set of problems.
SomeSlightlyIrregular.com
cityislandmovie.com
These conventions didn’t just come out of thin air: They all started life as somebody’s bright idea. If an
idea works well enough, other sites imitate it and eventually enough people have seen it in enough
places that it needs no explanation.
When applied well, Web conventions make life easier for users because they don’t have to constantly
figure out what things are and how they’re supposed to work as they go from site to site.
Want proof that conventions help? See how much you know about this page—even if you can’t
understand a word of it—just because it follows some conventions.
One problem with conventions, though: Designers are often reluctant to take advantage of them.
Faced with the prospect of following a convention, there’s a great temptation for designers to try
reinventing the wheel instead, largely because they feel (not incorrectly) that they’ve been hired to do
something new and different, not the same old thing. Not to mention the fact that praise from peers,
awards, and high-profile job offers are rarely based on criteria like “best use of conventions.”
Occasionally, time spent reinventing the wheel results in a revolutionary new rolling device. But usually
it just amounts to time spent reinventing the wheel.
If you’re going to innovate, you have to understand the value of what you’re replacing (or as Dylan put
it, “To live outside the law, you must be honest”), and it’s easy to underestimate just how much value
conventions provide. The classic example is custom scrollbars. Whenever a designer decides to create
scrollbars from scratch—usually to make them prettier—the results almost always make it obvious that
the designer never thought about how many hundreds or thousands of hours of fine tuning went into the
evolution of the standard operating system scrollbars.
If you’re not going to use an existing Web convention, you need to be sure that what you’re replacing it
with either (a) is so clear and self-explanatory that there’s no learning curve—so it’s as good as the
convention, or (b) adds so much value that it’s worth a small learning curve.
My recommendation: Innovate when you
know
you have a better idea, but take advantage of
conventions when you don’t.
Don’t get me wrong: I’m not in any way trying to discourage creativity. I love innovative and original
Web design.
One of my favorite examples is Harlem.org. The whole site is built around Art Kane’s famous photo of
57 jazz musicians, taken on the steps of a brownstone in Harlem in August 1957. Instead of text links or
menus, you use the photo to navigate the site.
Not only is it innovative and fun, but it’s easy to understand and use. And the creators were smart
enough to understand that the fun might wear off after a while so they also included a more
conventional category-based navigation.
You can also browse the musicians by name, instrument, or jazz style.
The rule of thumb is that you can—and
should
—be as creative and innovative as you want, and add as
much aesthetic appeal as you can,
as long as you make sure it’s still usable
.
And finally, a word about consistency.
You often hear consistency cited as an absolute good. People win a lot of design arguments just by
saying “We can’t do that. It wouldn’t be consistent.”
Consistency
is
always a good thing to strive for within your site or app. If your navigation is always in
the same place, for instance, I don’t have to think about it or waste time looking for it. But there will be
cases where things will be clearer if you make them
slightly
inconsistent.
Here’s the rule to keep in mind:
CLARITY TRUMPS CONSISTENCY
If you can make something
significantl
y clearer by making it
slightly
inconsistent, choose in favor of
clarity.
Create effective visual hierarchies
Another important way to make pages easy to grasp in a hurry is to make sure that the appearance of the
things on the page—all of the visual cues—accurately portray the relationships between the things on
the page: which things are most important, which things are similar, and which things are part of other
things. In other words, each page should have a clear visual hierarchy.
Pages with a clear visual hierarchy have three traits:
The more important something is, the more prominent it is.
The most important elements are
either larger, bolder, in a distinctive color, set off by more white space, or nearer the top of the
page—or some combination of the above.
Things that are related logically are related visually.
For instance, you can show that things are
similar by grouping them together under a heading, displaying them in the same visual style, or
putting them all in a clearly defined area.
Things are “nested” visually to show what’s part of what.
For instance, a site section name
(“Computer Books”) would appear above the titles of the individual books, reflecting the fact that
the books are part of the section. And each book title in turn would span all the elements that
make up the description of that book.
There’s nothing new about visual hierarchies. Every newspaper page, for instance, uses prominence,
grouping, and nesting to give us useful information about the contents of the page before we read a
word.
This
picture goes with
this
story because they’re both spanned by this headline.
This
story is the
most important because it has the biggest headline and a prominent position on the page.
We all parse visual hierarchies every day, but it happens so quickly that the only time we’re even
vaguely aware that we’re doing it is when we
can’t
do it—when the visual cues (or absence of them)
force us to think.
A good visual hierarchy saves us work by preprocessing the page for us, organizing and prioritizing its
contents in a way that we can grasp almost instantly.
But when a page doesn’t have a clear visual hierarchy—if everything looks equally important, for
instance—we’re reduced to the much slower process of scanning the page for revealing words and
phrases and then trying to form our own sense of what’s important and how things are organized. It’s a
lot more work.
Parsing a page with a visual hierarchy that’s even slightly flawed—where a heading spans things that
aren’t part of it, for instance—is like reading a carelessly constructed sentence (“Bill put the cat on the
table for a minute because it was a little wobbly”).
This flawed visual hierarchy suggests that all the major sections of the site are part of the Computer
Books subsection.
Putting the heading where it belongs makes the relationship clearer.
Even though we can usually figure out what the sentence is supposed to mean, it still throws us
momentarily and forces us to think when we shouldn’t have to.
Break up pages into clearly defined areas
Ideally, on any well-designed Web page users can play a variation of the old TV game show
$25,000
Pyramid
.
Glancing around, they should be able to point at the different areas of the page and say,
“Things I can do on this site!” “Links to today’s top stories!” “Products this company sells!” “Things
they’re eager to sell me!” “Navigation to get to the rest of the site!”
Dividing the page into clearly defined areas is important because it allows users to decide quickly which
areas of the page to focus on and which areas they can safely ignore. Eye-tracking studies of Web page
scanning suggest that users decide very quickly in their initial glances which parts of the page are likely
to have useful information and then rarely look at the other parts—almost as though they weren’t there.
(Banner blindness—the ability of users to completely ignore areas they think will contain ads—is just
the extreme case.)
Make it obvious what’s clickable
Since a large part of what people are doing on the Web is looking for the next thing to click, it’s
important to make it easy to tell what’s clickable.
As we scan a page, we’re looking for a variety of visual cues that identify things as clickable (or
“tappable” on touch screens)—things like shape (buttons, tabs, etc.), location (in a menu bar, for
instance), and formatting (color and underlining).
This process of looking for clues in the appearance of things that tell us how to use them isn’t limited to
Web pages. As Don Norman explains so enjoyably in his recently updated usability classic
The Design
of Everyday Things
, we’re constantly parsing our environment (like the handles on doors) for these
clues (to decide whether to pull or push). Read it. You’ll never look at doors the same way again.
Easily identifying what’s clickable on a page has waxed and waned as a problem since the beginning of
the Web.
It’s currently resurfacing as an issue in mobile design, though, as you’ll see in
Chapter 10
.
In general, you’ll be fine if you just stick to one color for all text links or make sure that their shape and
location identify them as clickable. Just don’t make silly mistakes like using the same color for links
and nonclickable headings.
Keep the noise down to a dull roar
One of the great enemies of easy-to-grasp pages is visual noise.
Users have varying tolerances for complexity and distractions; some people have no problem with noisy
pages, but many find them downright annoying. Users have even been known to put Post-its on their
screen to cover up animation that’s distracting them while they’re trying to read.
There are really three different kinds of noise:
Shouting.
When everything on the page is clamoring for your attention, the effect can be
overwhelming: Lots of invitations to buy! Lots of exclamation points, different typefaces, and
bright colors! Automated slideshows, animation, pop-ups, and the never-ending array of new
attention-grabbing ad formats!
The truth is,
everything
can’t be important. Shouting is usually the result of a failure to make
tough decisions about which elements are really the most important and then create a visual
hierarchy that guides users to them first.
Disorganization.
Some pages look like a room that’s been ransacked, with things strewn
everywhere. This is a sure sign that the designer doesn’t understand the importance of using grids
to align the elements on a page.
Clutter.
We’ve all seen pages—especially Home pages—that just have too much
stuff.
The net
effect is the same as when your email inbox is flooded with things like newsletters from sites that
have decided that your one contact with them has made you lifelong friends: It’s hard to find and
focus on the messages you actually care about. You end up with what engineers call a low signal-
to-noise ratio: Lots of noise, not much information, and the noise obscures the useful stuff.
When you’re editing your Web pages, it’s probably a good idea to start with the assumption that
everything
is visual noise (the “presumed guilty until proven innocent” approach) and get rid of
anything that’s not making a real contribution. In the face of limited time and attention, everything
that’s not part of the solution must go.
Format text to support scanning
Much of the time—perhaps most of the time—that users spend on your Web pages is spent scanning the
text in search of something.
The way your text is formatted can do a lot to make it easier for them.
Which one would you rather scan?
Here are the most important things you can do to make your pages scan-friendly:
Use plenty of headings.
Well-written, thoughtful headings interspersed in the text act as an
informal outline or table of contents for a page. They tell you what each section is about or, if
they’re less literal, they intrigue you. Either way they help you decide which parts to read, scan, or
skip.
In general, you’ll want to use more headings than you’d think and put more time into writing
them.
Also, be sure to format headings correctly. Two very important things about the styling of headings that
people often overlook:
If you’re using more than one level of heading, make sure there’s an obvious, impossible-to-miss visual
distinction between them. You can do this by making each higher level larger or by leaving more space
above it.
Bad
Better
Even more important: Don’t let your headings float. Make sure they’re closer to the section they
introduce than to the section they follow. This makes a huge difference.
Bad
Better
Keep paragraphs short.
Long paragraphs confront the reader with what Caroline Jarrett and
Ginny Redish call a “wall of words.” They’re daunting, they make it harder for readers to keep
their place, and they’re harder to scan than a series of shorter paragraphs.
You may have been taught that each paragraph has to have a topic sentence, detail sentences, and
a conclusion, but reading online is different. Even single-sentence paragraphs are fine.
If you examine a long paragraph, you’ll almost always find that there’s a reasonable place to break
it in two. Get in the habit of doing it.
Use bulleted lists.
Think of it this way: Almost anything that
can
be a bulleted list probably
should
be. Just look at your paragraphs for any series of items separated by commas or semicolons
and you’ll find likely candidates.
And for optimal readability, there should be a small amount of additional space between the items
in the list.
Bad
Better
Highlight key terms.
Much page scanning consists of looking for key words and phrases.
Formatting the most important ones in bold where they first appear in the text makes them easier
to find. (If they’re already text links, you obviously don’t have to.) Don’t highlight too many
things, though, or the technique will lose its effectiveness.
If you really want to learn about making content scannable (or about anything related to writing for
screens in general), run, do not walk, to an Internet-connected device and order Ginny Redish’s book
Letting Go of the Words
.
And while you’re at it, order a copy for anyone you know who writes, edits, or has anything to do with
creating digital content. They’ll end up eternally indebted to you.
Chapter 4. Animal, Vegetable, or Mineral?
WHY USERS LIKE MINDLESS CHOICES
It doesn’t matter how many times I have to click, as long as each click is a mindless, unambiguous
choice.
Web designers and usability professionals have spent a lot of time over the years debating how many
times you can expect users to click (or tap) to get what they want without getting too frustrated. Some
sites even have design rules stating that it should never take more than a specified number of clicks
(usually three, four, or five) to get to any page in the site.
On the face of it, “number of clicks to get anywhere” seems like a useful metric. But over time I’ve
come to think that what really counts is not the number of clicks it takes me to get to what I want
(although there are limits), but rather how
hard
each click is—the amount of thought required and the
amount of uncertainty about whether I’m making the right choice.
In general, I think it’s safe to say that users don’t mind a lot of clicks
as long as each click is painless
and they have continued confidence that they’re on the right track
—following what’s often called the
“scent of information.”
Links that clearly and unambiguously identify their target give off a strong
scent that assures users that clicking them will bring them nearer to their “prey.” Ambiguous or poorly
worded links do not.
I think the rule of thumb might be something like “three mindless, unambiguous clicks equal one click
that requires thought.”
The classic first question in the word game Twenty Questions—“
Animal, vegetable, or mineral
?”—is a
wonderful example of a mindless choice. As long as you accept the premise that anything that’s not a
plant or an animal—including things as diverse as pianos, limericks, and cheesecake, for instance—falls
under “mineral,” it requires almost no thought to answer the question correctly.
Unfortunately, many choices on the Web aren’t as clear.
For example, as recently as a few years ago when I was trying to buy a product or service to use in my
home office (like a printer, for instance), most of the manufacturers’ sites asked me to make a top-level
choice like this:
Which one was me? I had to think about it, and even when I made my choice I wasn’t very confident it
was the right one. In fact, what I had to look forward to when the target page finally loaded was even
more
thinking to figure out whether I was in the right place.
It was the feeling I get when I’m standing in front of two mailboxes labeled Stamped Mail and Metered
Mail with a business reply card in my hand. What do
they
think it is—stamped or metered? And what
happens if I drop it in the wrong box?
Here’s another example:
I’m trying to read an article online. The page I arrive at gives me all these options:
Now I’ve got to scan all this text and work out whether I’m a subscriber but not a member, or a
member, or neither one. And then I’ll have to dig up the account number or the password that I used or
decide whether it’s worth joining.
At this point, the question I’m asking myself is probably changing from “How do I answer this
question?” to “Just how interested am I in this article?”
The New York Times
makes the same kind of choice seem much easier by not confronting you with all
the details at once. Making an initial selection (to log in or to see your options for subscribing) takes
you to another screen where you see only the relevant questions or information for that selection.
This problem of giving the user difficult choices and questions that are hard to answer happens all the
time in forms. Caroline Jarrett has an entire chapter about it (“Making Questions Easy to Answer”) in
her book
Forms that Work: Designing Web Forms for Usability.
As with Ginny Redish’s book about writing for the Web, anyone who works on forms should have a
well-worn copy sitting on their desk.
Some assistance may be required
Life is complicated, though, and some choices really aren’t simple.
When you can’t avoid giving me a difficult choice, you need to go out of your way to give me as much
guidance as I need—but no more.
This guidance works best when it’s
Brief:
The smallest amount of information that will help me
Timely:
Placed so I encounter it exactly when I need it
Unavoidable:
Formatted in a way that ensures that I’ll notice it
Examples are tips adjacent to form fields, “What’s this?” links, and even tool tips.
My favorite example of this kind of just-in-time guidance is found on street corners throughout London.
It’s brief (“LOOK RIGHT” and an arrow pointing right), timely (you see it at the instant you need to be
reminded), and unavoidable (you almost always glance down when you’re stepping off a curb).
I have to think it’s saved the lives of a lot of tourists who expect traffic to be coming from the other
direction. (I know it saved mine once.)
Whether you need to offer some help or not, the point is that we face choices all the time on the Web
and making those choices mindless is one of the most important things you can do to make a site easy to
use.
Chapter 5. Omit
words
THE ART OF NOT WRITING FOR THE WEB
Get rid of half the words on each page, then get rid of half of what’s left.
Of the five or six things that I learned in college, the one that has stuck with me the longest—and
benefited me the most—is E. B. White’s seventeenth rule in
The Elements of Style:
17. Omit needless words
.
Vigorous writing is concise. A sentence should contain no unnecessary words, a paragraph no
unnecessary sentences, for the same reason that a drawing should have no unnecessary lines
and a machine no unnecessary parts.
When I look at most Web pages, I’m struck by the fact that most of the words I see are just taking up
space, because no one is ever going to read them. And just by being there, all the extra words suggest
that you may actually
need
to read them to understand what’s going on, which often makes pages seem
more daunting than they actually are.
My Third Law probably sounds excessive, because it’s meant to. Removing half of the words is actually
a realistic goal; I find I have no trouble getting rid of half the words on most Web pages without losing
anything of value. But the idea of removing half of what’s left is just my way of trying to encourage
people to be ruthless about it.
Getting rid of all those words that no one is going to read has several beneficial effects:
It reduces the noise level of the page.
It makes the useful content more prominent.
It makes the pages shorter, allowing users to see more of each page at a glance without scrolling.
I’m not suggesting that the articles at WebMD.com or the stories on NYTimes.com should be shorter
than they are. But certain kinds of writing tend to be particularly prone to excess.
Happy talk must die
We all know happy talk when we see it: It’s the introductory text that’s supposed to welcome us to the
site and tell us how great it is or to tell us what we’re about to see in the section we’ve just entered.
If you’re not sure whether something is happy talk, there’s one sure-fire test: If you listen very closely
while you’re reading it, you can actually hear a tiny voice in the back of your head saying, “Blah blah
blah blah blah....”
A lot of happy talk is the kind of self-congratulatory promotional writing that you find in badly written
brochures. Unlike good promotional copy, it conveys no useful information, and it focuses on saying
how great we are, as opposed to explaining what makes us great.
Although happy talk is sometimes found on Home pages—usually in paragraphs that start with the
words “Welcome to...”—its favored habitat is the front pages of the sections of a site (“section fronts”).
Since these pages are often just a list of links to the pages in the section with no real content of their
own, there’s a temptation to fill them with happy talk. Unfortunately, the effect is as if a book publisher
felt obligated to add a paragraph to the table of contents page saying, “This book contains many
interesting chapters about _____, _____, and _____. We hope you enjoy them.”
Happy talk is like small talk—content-free, basically just a way to be sociable. But most Web users
don’t have time for small talk; they want to get right to the point. You can—and should—eliminate as
much happy talk as possible.
Instructions must die
Another major source of needless words is instructions. The main thing you need to know about
instructions is that no one is going to read them—at least not until after repeated attempts at “muddling
through” have failed. And even then, if the instructions are wordy, the odds of users finding the
information they need are pretty low.
Your objective should always be to eliminate instructions entirely by making everything self-
explanatory, or as close to it as possible. When instructions are absolutely necessary, cut them back to
the bare minimum.
For example, here are the instructions I found at the beginning of a site survey:
I think some aggressive pruning makes them much more useful:
Before: 103 Words
After: 34 Words
Please help us improve the site by taking 2-3 minutes to complete this survey.
NOTE: If you have comments or concerns that require a response, don’t use this form.
Instead, please contact
Customer Service
.
And now for something completely different
In these first few chapters, I’ve been trying to convey some guiding principles that I think are good to
have in mind when you’re building a Web site.
Now we’re heading into two chapters that look at how these principles apply to two of the biggest and
most important challenges in Web design: navigation and the Home page.
You might want to pack a lunch. They’re very long chapters.
Things You Need to Get Right
Chapter 6. Street signs and Breadcrumbs
DESIGNING NAVIGATION
And you may find yourself | in a beautiful house | with a beautiful wife And you may ask yourself |
Well... | How did I get here?!
It’s a fact:
People won’t use your Web site if they can’t find their way around it.
You know this from your own experience as a Web user. If you go to a site and can’t find what you’re
looking for or figure out how the site is organized, you’re not likely to stay long—or come back. So
how do you create the proverbial “clear, simple, and consistent” navigation?
Scene from a mall
Picture this: It’s Saturday afternoon and you’re headed for the mall to buy a chainsaw.
As you walk through the door at Sears, you’re thinking, “Hmmm. Where do they keep chainsaws?” As
soon as you’re inside, you start looking at the department names, high up on the walls. (They’re big
enough that you can read them from all the way across the store.)
“Hmmm,” you think, “Tools? Or Lawn and Garden?” It could be either one, but you’ve got to start
somewhere so you head in the direction of Tools.
When you reach the Tools department, you start looking at the signs at the end of each aisle.
When you think you’ve got the right aisle, you start looking at the individual products.
If it turns out you’ve guessed wrong, you try another aisle, or you may back up and start over again in
the Lawn and Garden department. By the time you’re done, the process looks something like this:
Basically, you use the store’s navigation systems (the signs and the organizing hierarchy that the signs
embody) and your ability to scan shelves full of products to find what you’re looking for.
Of course, the actual process is a little more complex. For one thing, as you walk in the door you
usually devote a few microseconds to a crucial decision: Are you going to start by looking for
chainsaws on your own or are you going to ask someone where they are?
It’s a decision based on a number of variables—how familiar you are with the store, how much you trust
their ability to organize things sensibly, how much of a hurry you’re in, and even how sociable you are.
When we factor this decision in, the process looks something like this:
Note that even if you start looking on your own, if things don’t pan out there’s a good chance that
eventually you’ll end up asking someone for directions anyway.
Web Navigation 101
In many ways, you go through the same process when you enter a Web site.
You’re usually trying to find something.
In the “real” world it might be the emergency room or
a family-size bottle of ketchup. On the Web, it might be a pair of headphones or the name of the
actor in Casablanca who played the headwaiter at Rick’s.
You decide whether to ask first or browse first.
The difference is that on a Web site there’s no
one standing around who can tell you where things are. The Web equivalent of asking directions is
searching—typing a description of what you’re looking for in a search box and getting back a list
of links to places where it
might
be.
Some people (Jakob Nielsen calls them “search-dominant” users) will almost always look for a search
box as soon as they enter a site. (These may be the same people who look for the nearest clerk as soon
as they enter a store.)
Other people (Nielsen’s “link-dominant” users) will almost always browse first, searching only when
they’ve run out of likely links to click or when they have gotten sufficiently frustrated by the site.
For everyone else, the decision whether to start by browsing or searching depends on their current frame
of mind, how much of a hurry they’re in, and whether the site appears to have decent browsable
navigation.
If you choose to browse, you make your way through a hierarchy, using signs to guide you.
Typically, you’ll look around on the Home page for a list of the site’s main sections (like the
store’s department signs) and click on the one that seems right.
Then you’ll choose from the list of subsections.
With any luck, after another click or two you’ll end up with a list of the kind of thing you’re
looking for.
Then you can click on the individual links to examine them in detail, the same way you’d take
products off the shelf and read the labels.
Eventually, if you can’t find what you’re looking for, you’ll leave.
This is as true on a Web site
as it is at Sears. You’ll leave when you’re convinced they haven’t got it or when you’re just too
frustrated to keep looking.
Here’s what the process looks like:
The unbearable lightness of browsing
Looking for things on a Web site and looking for them in the “real” world have a lot of similarities.
When we’re exploring the Web, in some ways it even
feels
like we’re moving around in a physical
space. Think of the words we use to describe the experience—like “cruising,” “browsing,” and
“surfing.” And clicking a link doesn’t “load” or “display” another page—it “takes you to” a page.
But the Web experience is missing many of the cues we’ve relied on all our lives to negotiate spaces.
Consider these oddities of Web space:
No sense of scale.
Even after we’ve used a Web site extensively, unless it’s a very small site we
tend to have very little sense of how big it is (50 pages? 1,000? 17,000?).
For all we know, there
could be huge corners we’ve never explored. Compare this to a magazine, a museum, or a
department store, where you always have at least a rough sense of the seen/unseen ratio.
The practical result is that it’s very hard to know whether you’ve seen everything of interest to
you in a site, which means it’s hard to know when to stop looking.
No sense of direction.
In a Web site, there’s no left and right, no up and down. We may talk about
moving up and down, but we mean up and down in the hierarchy—to a more general or more
specific level.
No sense of location.
In physical spaces, as we move around we accumulate knowledge about the
space. We develop a sense of where things are and can take shortcuts to get to them.
We may get to the chainsaws the first time by following the signs, but the next time we’re just as
likely to think,
“Chainsaws? Oh, yeah, I remember where they were: right rear corner, near the refrigerators.”
And then head straight to them.
But on the Web, your feet never touch the ground; instead, you make your way around by clicking on
links. Click on “Power Tools” and you’re suddenly teleported to the Power Tools aisle with no traversal
of space, no glancing at things along the way.
When we want to return to something on a Web site, instead of relying on a
physical
sense of where it is
we have to remember where it is in the conceptual hierarchy and retrace our steps.
This is one reason why bookmarks—stored personal shortcuts—are so important, and why the Back
button is the most used button in Web browsers.
It also explains why the concept of Home pages is so important. Home pages are—comparatively—
fixed places. When you’re in a site, the Home page is like the North Star. Being able to click Home
gives you a fresh start.
This lack of physicality is both good and bad. On the plus side, the sense of weightlessness can be
exhilarating and partly explains why it’s so easy to lose track of time on the Web—the same as when
we’re “lost” in a good book.
On the negative side, I think it explains why we use the term “Web navigation” even though we never
talk about “department store navigation” or “library navigation.” If you look up navigation in a
dictionary, it’s about doing two things: getting from one place to another, and figuring out where you
are.
I think we talk about Web navigation because “figuring out where you are” is a much more pervasive
problem on the Web than in physical spaces. We’re inherently lost when we’re on the Web, and we can’t
peek over the aisles to see where we are. Web navigation compensates for this missing sense of place by
embodying the site’s hierarchy, creating a sense of “there.”
Navigation isn’t just a
feature
of a Web site; it is the Web site, in the same way that the building, the
shelves, and the cash registers are Sears. Without it, there’s no there there.
The moral? Web navigation had better be good.
The overlooked purposes of navigation
Two of the purposes of navigation are fairly obvious: to help us find whatever it is we’re looking for
and to tell us where we are.
But navigation has some other equally important—and easily overlooked—functions:
It tells us what’s here.
By making the hierarchy visible, navigation tells us what the site contains.
Navigation reveals content! And revealing the site may be even more important than guiding or
situating us.
It tells us how to use the site.
If the navigation is doing its job, it tells you
implicitly
where to
begin and what your options are. Done correctly, it should be all the instructions you need. (Which
is good, since most users will ignore any other instructions anyway.)
It gives us confidence in the people who built it.
Every moment we’re in a Web site, we’re
keeping a mental running tally: “Do these guys know what they’re doing?” It’s one of the main
factors we use in deciding whether to bail out and deciding whether to ever come back. Clear,
well-thought-out navigation is one of the best opportunities a site has to create a good impression.
Web navigation conventions
Physical spaces like cities and buildings (and even information spaces like books and magazines) have
their own navigation systems, with conventions that have evolved over time like street signs, page
numbers, and chapter titles. The conventions specify (loosely) the appearance and location of the
navigation elements so we know what to look for and where to look when we need them.
Putting them in a standard place lets us locate them quickly, with a minimum of effort; standardizing
their appearance makes it easy to distinguish them from everything else.
For instance, we expect to find street signs at street corners, we expect to find them by looking up (not
down), and we expect them to look like street signs (horizontal, not vertical).
We also take it for granted that the name of a building will be above or next to its front door. In a
grocery store, we expect to find signs near the ends of each aisle. In a magazine, we know there will be
a table of contents somewhere in the first few pages and page numbers somewhere in the margin of each
page—and that they’ll look like a table of contents and page numbers.
Think of how frustrating it is when one of these conventions is broken (when magazines don’t put page
numbers on advertising pages, for instance).
Although their appearance can vary significantly, these are the basic navigation conventions for the
Web:


